ls: Lists the contents of a directory, including files and subdirectories.
Example: ls -l (detailed view)

cd: Changes the current directory to a specified path.
Example: cd /home/user

pwd: Prints the full path of the current working directory.
Example: pwd

cp: Copies files or directories from one location cato another.
Example: cp file1.txt /backup/

mv: Moves or renames files or directories.
Example: mv file1.txt newfile.txt

rm: Deletes files or directories.
Example: rm file1.txt (use -r for directories)

mkdir: Creates a new directory.
Example: mkdir new_directory

rmdir: Removes an empty directory.
Example: rmdir old_directory

touch: Creates an empty file or updates the last modified timestamp of an existing file.
Example: touch newfile.txt

cat: Concatenates and displays the contents of files.
Example: cat file1.txt

more: Displays the content of a file one page at a time, allowing for easy reading.
Example: more file1.txt

less: Similar to more, but with additional features for navigating through large files.
Example: less file1.txt

head: Shows the first few lines of a file, useful for previewing its content.
Example: head -n 10 file1.txt

tail: Shows the last few lines of a file, often used to view recent log entries.
Example: tail -n 10 file1.txt

find: Searches for files and directories based on specified criteria.
Example: find /home/user -name "*.txt"

grep: Searches for specific text patterns within files.
Example: grep "search_term" file1.txt

chmod: Changes the permissions of files or directories, controlling access rights.
Example: chmod 755 script.sh

chown: Changes the ownership and group of files or directories.
Example: chown user:group file1.txt

ps: Shows information about currently running processes.
Example: ps aux

top: Provides a real-time view of system processes and resource usage.
Example: top

kill: Terminates a process using its process ID (PID).
Example: kill 1234

df: Displays the amount of disk space used and available on filesystems.
Example: df -h

du: Shows the disk usage of files and directories.
Example: du -sh /home/user/

free: Displays the amount of free and used memory in the system.
Example: free -h

ifconfig: Configures or displays network interface parameters (deprecated, use ip instead).
Example: ifconfig

ip: Displays or configures network interfaces, routing, and other network settings.
Example: ip addr show

ping: Tests network connectivity to a specified host by sending ICMP Echo Request packets.
Example: ping google.com

wget: Downloads files from the internet via HTTP, HTTPS, or FTP.
Example: wget http://example.com/file.zip

curl: Transfers data from or to a server using various protocols such as HTTP, HTTPS, FTP, and more.
Example: curl -O http://example.com/file.zip

apt-get: Manages packages on Debian-based systems, used for updating package lists and installing or removing software.
Example: apt-get update (update package lists), apt-get install package_name (install a package)

find: Searches for files and directories in a directory hierarchy based on various criteria.

grep: Searches for patterns (text) within files and prints the lines that match the pattern.

git init: Initialize a new Git repository in the current directory.

git clone <repository_url>: Clone a remote repository to your local machine.

git status: Check the status of your repository (e.g., changes, staged files).

git add <file>: Stage a specific file for commit.

git add .: Stage all changes in the current directory for commit.

git commit -m "commit message": Commit staged changes with a message.

git push: Push commits from the local repository to the remote repository.

git pull: Fetch and merge changes from the remote repository to your local branch.

git branch: List all branches in the repository.

git branch <branch_name>: Create a new branch.

git checkout <branch_name>: Switch to a specific branch.

git checkout -b <branch_name>: Create and switch to a new branch.

git merge <branch_name>: Merge the specified branch into the current branch.

git log: View the commit history.

git diff: Show changes between working directory and the index or between branches.

git reset <file>: Unstage a specific file.

git reset --hard: Reset the index and working directory to the last commit (warning: discards changes).

git stash: Stash changes in the working directory temporarily.

git stash pop: Apply stashed changes back to the working directory.

git remote -v: Show the list of remote repositories and their URLs.